APPMAN(1)                        User Commands                       APPMAN(1)



NAME
       appman - Appweb manager

SYNOPSIS
       appman [options] [commands]
              [--args arguments] [--console] [--daemon] [--heartBeat interval]
              [--home directory] [--log logFile:level]

DESCRIPTION
       The appman program is used to configure the running of Appweb as a sys-
       tem  service  (daemon).  Appman provides a generic way to install/unin-
       stall, enable/disable, start/stop, and run the Appweb service,  regard-
       less of the operating system. When used to run Appweb, it starts Appweb
       and then watches over Appweb, to restart it should Appweb fail.  Appman
       also  provides  general  management commands to enable, disable, start,
       and stop appweb.

COMMANDS
       disable
              Disable Appweb from automatically starting when  the  system  is
              booted.

       enable Enable Appweb to start automatically on system boot.

       install
              Install Appweb as a service.

       run    Run  Appweb and monitor its execution. Appman will automatically
              restart Appweb should it fail. Appman will block  unless  it  is
              invoked with --daemon.

       start  Start Appweb manually.

       stop   Stop Appweb.

       uninstall
              Uninstall Appweb as a service.

OPTIONS
       --args arguments
              Arguments  to  use  for the service program command line when it
              starts.

       --console
              Windows specific option to allow the manager process to interact
              with the users desktop.

       --daemon
              Run  the manager as a daemon process. This causes the manager to
              detach from the current shell and run in the background.

       --heartBeat interval
              Windows specific option to set the frequency in seconds for  the
              manager to check on service.  This period should be short enough
              that the service will be quickly restarted should it  fail,  but
              not  so  short that the manager process consumes significant CPU
              resources.  If the service dies more than 30 times per hour, the
              manager will suspend restarting the service.

       --home directory
              Set the home directory in which to start the service.

       --log logFile:level
              Specify  a  file  to  use  for  log messages. The level argument
              defines the message verbosity. Zero is the least and  9  is  the
              most verbose.

       --retries count
              Number of times to restart Appweb per hour.

       -v     Output the product version number.


REPORTING BUGS
       Report bugs to <dev@embedthis.com>.

COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (C) 2003-2012 Embedthis Software.

SEE ALSO
       appweb



appman                           November 2012                       APPMAN(1)
