ESP(1)                           User Commands                          ESP(1)



NAME
       esp  - Embedded Server Pages Application Generator.

SYNOPSIS
       esp  [--apply]]  [--database  DB]]  [--keep]  [--layout  layoutPage]
       [--overwrite[--quiet[--reverse[--verbose] [commands ...]

DESCRIPTION
       The  esp  command  generates, manages and runs Ejscript web applica-
       tions.  It can generate Ejscript web applications,  controllers,  data-
       base migrations, models, scaffolds and views.

       Ejsweb  will  create  directories and generate configuration and source
       code files which can then be manually edited as  required.   Ejsweb  is
       intelligent  and  will  not overwrite existing files, so you can safely
       edit and regenerate without losing your changes. You can overwrite your
       changes if you wish to by using the --overwrite switch.

       Ejsweb can run your application by invoking a configured web server.

GENERATING APPLICATIONS
       To  start  a  new web application, run esp to create the application
       directory and generate  the  application  configuration  and  essential
       script files. For example:

             esp generate app myApp

       This  will  will  create  a set of directories which have the following
       meaning:

             .tmp           - Temporary working directory
             .ejs           - State files used by esp
             bin            - Programs and scripts
             config         - Configuration files
             controllers    - Controller source
             db             - Databases and scripts
             db/migrations  - Databases migration scripts
             doc            - Documentation for the application
             logs           - Log files
             models         - Database model code
             messages       - Internationalization messages
             test           - Unit tests
             src            - Extra application source code
             utils          - Program utilities
             views          - View source files
             views/layouts  - View layout files
             web            - Public web directory
             web/images     - Public images
             web/js         - Client side JavaScripts
             web/themes     - Application HTML themes

       Most of these directories are initially empty, but  may  be  used  over
       time.  Ejscript  follows  conventions  where specific files are stored.
       This greatly simplifies configuring a web application.

       Ejsweb will also create some files which have the following meaning:

             config/config.ecf           - Application configuration file
             config/compiler.ecf         - Compiler configuration file
             config/database.ecf         - Database configuration file
             config/view.ecf             - View connector configuration file
             controllers/Base.es         - Application base controller class
             views/layouts/default.ejs   - Default layout web page
             web/layout.css              - Default layout CSS file
             web/themes/default.css      - Default theme CSS file
             web/js/jquery.js            - Jquery client side script
             README                      - Documentation explaining files  and
            directories

GENERATING CONTROLLERS
       Controllers   are  the  primary  mechanism  for  responding  to  client
       requests. To generate a controller, run:

             esp generate controller NAME [actions...]

       This will create a controller of the requested name. It will  create  a
       controller class file in the controllers directory. If action names are
       requested, the controller class will define an action method  for  each
       name.  If  not action names are requested, esp will define a default
       action named index.  Actions are controller functions that are  invoked
       in  response  to client requests. You can edit the controller source to
       meet your needs.

GENERATING MODELS
       Database models are Ejscript classes that encapsulate database data and
       provide  access  methods.  They  provide a conduit to interact with the
       database. To generate a model:

             esp generate model MODEL [field:type ...]

       This will create a database model and will generate a model class under
       the models directory.  It will also create a database migration to cre-
       ate a database table of the same name as the model.  If field:type val-
       ues  are supplied, the database migration will include code to create a
       column for each specified field of the requested type. The valid  data-
       base  types are: binary, boolean, date, datetime, decimal, float, inte-
       ger, number, string, text, time, timestamp.


GENERATING SCAFFOLDS
       A scaffold is a generated  database  migration,  database  model,  con-
       troller and set of views that provides add, edit and list functionality
       for a database model.  Scaffolds are useful to quickly generate  chunks
       of  the  application and prototype web pages and actions for managing a
       datbase table.  To generate a scaffold:

             esp generate scaffold MODEL [field:type ...]

       This will create a scaffold for the specified database model  and  will
       generate  a controller of the same name.  If field:type values are sup-
       plied, the database migration will include code to create a column  for
       each  specified  field  of the requested type. The valid database types
       are: binary, boolean, date, datetime, decimal, float, integer,  number,
       string,  text,  time,  timestamp.   The  scaffold  will include an edit
       action and view that provides add and edit capability. The list  action
       and  view,  provides  the  ability  to list the database table rows and
       select an entry to edit.

       You can use the --apply switch  to  apply  the  database  migration  to
       upgrade the database.

GENERATING MIGRATIONS
       Database  migrations  are  scripts  which modify the database schema or
       content. You can create database  migrations  by  the  esp  generate
       migration  command.  This  command generates a migration for a specific
       model by creating or removing tables and columns. To generate a  migra-
       tion:

             esp generate migration description MODEL [field:type ...]

       This  will create a migration script under the db/migrations directory.
       Migration scripts filenames are timestamped and use the description  is
       used as part of the filename for the migration script (so keep it short
       and sweet).

       For each specified field:type pair, esp  will  generate  add  column
       code  in  the  migration  script. If the --reverse switch is specified,
       then remove column code will be generated. To change the type  or  name
       of a column, remove then re-add the column.


APPLYING MIGRATIONS
       Migration  scripts  can be run via the esp migrate command. With not
       other parameters, the command will run all migrations that have not yet
       been  applied  to the database. You can also use esp migrate forward
       to apply apply the next unapplied migration. Similarly  esp  migrate
       backward  will  reverse  the  last applied migration.  You can also use
       esp migrate NNN to migrate forward or backward to a specific  migra-
       tion.  NNN  is the migration sequence number which is the number at the
       start of the migration script file name.


COMPILING
       Ejscript compiles models, views and controllers into Ejscript byte-code
       modules.  These  are  then  loaded  and  run by Ejscript in response to
       incoming client requests. Code is compiled only once  but  can  be  run
       many times to service incoming requests.

       In  development  mode, Ejscript will automatically compile the relevant
       portions of the application if the source  code  is  modified.  It  can
       intelligently recompile views, actions, controllers and database models
       as required. However, you can also explicilty recompile portions or the
       complete appliction.

       Ejsweb can recompile everything via:
             esp compile ....
       This  will  compile  each  controller  and  view and also recompile the
       application and module source code. Module  files  for  each  component
       will be generated.

       Ejsweb  also  provides  options  for  you  to individually compile con-
       trollers and views. To recompile named views or controllers:

             esp compile view NAMES....

             esp compile controller NAMES....


       Models are compiled with application code into a single module file. To
       recompile the models and application source code:

             esp compile app.

       To compile the entire application and produce a single module file:

             esp compile all.

       To compile stand-alone Ejscript web pages:

             esp compile path/name.ejs....

       When  compiling  views,  you  can use the --keep switch to preserve the
       intermediate generated Ejscript source file.

RUNNING
       To run your application:

             esp run

       This requires that your config/config.ecf file be  modified  to  define
       command to run your web server.

CLEANING
       To clean all generated module files:

             esp clean

OPTIONS
       Ejsweb has the following command usage patterns:

             esp clean
             esp compile [all | app | controller names | model names | view
            names]
             esp compile path/name.ejs ...
             esp generate [app name | controller name  [action  [,  action]
            ...]| model name]
             esp   generate   scaffold   model   [controller]   [action  [,
            action]...]
             esp run

       --database connector
             Select a database connector to use. Currently this switch is  not
             implemented and sqlite is the only connector supported.

       --keep
             Preserve  generated  intermediate  Ejscript  source  files. These
             files are generated when blending views with layout pages.

       --layout layoutPage
             Change the name of the default layout page if  a  view  does  not
             explicitly specify a layout page.

       --overwrite
             Overwrite  existing  files.  Ejsweb  normally  will not overwrite
             existing files. This is to preserve user  changes  to  previously
             generated files.


       --search ejsPath
             Set  the  module  search path. The module search path is a set of
             directories that the esp command will use  when  locating  and
             loading  Ejscript modules.  The search path will always have some
             system directories appended to the end. These include paths spec-
             ified via the  EJSPATH environment variable and key system direc-
             tories such as the  Ejscript  system  module  directory  and  the
             directory containing the esp command.

             The  search  path  value  is similar in format to the system PATH
             variable format.  On windows, path segments are separated by  ";"
             and  on Linux, Unix, FreeBSD and MAC, the path segments are sepa-
             rated by ":" delimiters.

             Given a module named "a.b.c" in a script,  esp  will  use  the
             following search strategy to locate the module:

             1. Search for a module file named "a.b.c.mod"

             2. Search for a module file named "a/b/c.mod"

             3. Search for a module file named "a.b.c.mod" in the search path

             4. Search for a module file named c.mod in the search path


       --verbose or -v
             Run in verbose mode and trace actions to the console.


REPORTING BUGS
       Report bugs to dev@embedthis.com.


COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (C) 2004-2011 Embedthis Software.  Ejscript is a trademark of
       Embedthis Software.


SEE ALSO
       ejsc, ejs, ejsmod, ejsvm



esp                               March 2011                            ESP(1)
